-: Welcome back.
In this lecture we are going to create the
Maya Scale related Kubernetes manifest
which are required for us and then we are
going to build them using live template writing.
And then we are going to deploy
and then see that how we are going to
how the Maya scale is going to come
up with the persistent storage using elastic block store
which is EBS service in AWS.
So let's go to 0402 SCPVC,
which is nothing but storage class,
persistent volume claim, ConfigMaps
and then Maya scale deployment and then service.
So we are going to create file manifests here.
So we'll start with our step one.
So if you see here we are going to create the
storage class manifest persistent volume claim
user management ConfigMap, Maya scale deployment engine,
Maya scale cluster IP service.
So let's start with the first one
which is our create storage class manifest.
Okay, so let's go back to our visual studio core here.
And I have created the empty files here and then
put them ready for our development of live template writing,
okay.
So we are in the zero one storage class.
So as usual we are going to create our basic template first
which is nothing but APA version kind metadata.
And next is spec,
right?
So now let's start with the APA kind.
Kind is nothing but we are going to create
a storage class, okay?
And next is API version.
So for storage class the API version is going to look
like this, okay?
Storage.k8s.//v1
So let's see in our API specification document.
We can see it here now storage.k8s.//v1
So that's what we have implemented it for our storage class.
And now the metadata we are going to queue as tab
and then name
and then I'm going to say EBS storage class.
Okay?
And now when coming to this storage class
it is not going to be spec here.
So it is going to be the provisioner.
Okay?
So who is going to be the parishioner?
My provisioner.
My provisioner is going to be if it is agile disc car
If it is GC persistent disc
then the provisioner is going to differ
and now we are going to use it in AWS.
So it is going to be ebs.csi.aws.com,
Right?
So and now one more important thing here we need to work on
is
volume
binding mode.
So this can be immediate or wait for first consumer,
right?
So let me save this
and then see what is this wait for first consumer?
So let's come back here and if you see here this wait
for first consumer mode will delay the volume binding
and provisioning of the persistent volume
until a pod using the persistent volume claim is created.
So what happens is like whenever the storage class
you create it
and then whenever you create your persistent volume claim.
So if you don't add this volume binding mode to wait
for first customer
then it is going to immediately dynamically provision
and then mount your volume.
So means like it is going to provision your volume there.
So in which availability zone we really don't know,
it is dynamic, right?
So it can be in available zone one
or means like US-East-1 here
or US-East-1 we really don't know.
And whenever you go ahead
and then later you go and then create the pod
what happens is like if your volume is mounted
in US-East-1 here and your pod got scheduled
or created in US-East-1 B, then you have the issue, right?
So considering all those things
there is a new option provided here
wait for first consumer.
So what happens in this case is like whenever,
whenever you create the pod at that time only
it'll provision the equivalent volume for you.
So what happens
at that time is both will get created in the same topology
which is nothing but in the same a availability zone.
So that is one key important thing.
So that's the reason whenever we are using in our AWS here
we can use wait for first consumer.
Anyway even though using ABS with Maya scale databases here
on Kubernetes it'll have equivalent
setbacks and then drawbacks,
we'll see in our later lecture those things.
And then already a next lecture is planned
in detail for this like to avoid these EBS related issues.
So then how we are going to use the RDS database
in Kubernetes cluster, all those things already planned.
But for now let's go ahead
and then start writing our template related
to ConfigMap and then persistent volume claim.
So we just now completed the storage class related manifest.
Okay?
So in our next step we are going to
create the persistent volume claim related manifest.
So I'm not going to go for everything to pay version.
We are not going to go to refer the APA reference
doc every time.
So you can refer whenever you have time there.
But for now we'll go with the standard stuff here.
Okay?
So this is the standard APA version kind
and then metadata and then spec.
And now what we are creating is persistent
volume
claim
right?
And it's version is going to be V1.
And then in metadata our standard thing
is to create a name, right?
So I'm going to say EBS Maya scale
EV claim,
right?
And in spec we will have three things
on a very high level that is access modes
and next is storage class name this respective
persistent volume claim need to refer, right?
And next is resources.
How much you want to reserve the space.
Means like how much you want to take the space
for your respective mount point
of your Maya scale database example, right?
So your volume mount, how much you want to take.
So let's start with access modes.
So we want
read,
write,
once, okay?
And the storage class name whatever we created here
is EBS SC, right?
EBS storage class.
So I'm going to give that,
and resources in that
we are going to request how much, okay?
So we are going to request the storage,
and storage is going to be four gigabytes, okay?
4Gi
Okay,
So that's all.
Now we have completed the persistent volume
claim related
Kubernetes manifest.
Okay?
So we'll also complete user management
ConfigMap manifest and then we'll go to the next one.
So we are going to create a ConfigMap
manifest which will be mounted
in our Maya scale deployment.
So that whenever this,
whenever the Maya scale port is got created
automatically, it also need to create one small Schema named
User MGMT Schema.
So that we'll use
for our user management microservice deployment.
So whenever the user management microservices is deployed,
it expects that there is a User MGMT Schema present
in your respective database.
So for that purpose we introduce
to the ConfigMap concept here means like
why ConfigMap is like whatever you want to do,
whatever the configuration you want to send
to your ports, right?
In whatever the way you can define it
as a ConfigMap and then mount it in your container.
So we are going to container a definition which is nothing
whatever deployment.
So we are going to do that so that we know the user
of ConfigMap, how we are going to use it.
So our standard API version
Kind
Metadata.
And here it is not spec, it is going to be data.
Okay?
So then what we are going to create ConfigMap
and the version is going to be V1 in the metadata.
And here I'm going to write the name.
It is going to be
User
management
hyphen
DV creation script.
Okay?
So in data I'm going to create a
Mayascale
_
usermgmt.skl script okay?
So, and I'm going to write the content of my skl script
okay?
So I'm going to say
drop
database
if
exists.
Okay?
And database name is User MGMT, okay?
And then create
database
User
MGMT,
so we can use more or big,
whatever it is.
Okay?
So create database User MGMT.
So this is about creation of our ConfigMap
how we are going to mount it in our Maya scale
deployment file.
We are going to see in our next steps
okay?
But for now,
one thing we need to understand here is
let's save it and go back here.
So these are few steps to execute here
in persistent volume claims manifest.
That is nothing,
but let's create storage class in PVC
and then list them and then see how it is going to look
like.
We discuss about wait for first consumer, right?
So what happens, we are going to see here now.
So let's go here
and
go to,
what is this section?
Section is zero four, right?
So let's go to
zero four.
And in zero four
we'll have something called kube manifest.
We need to go to
zero four,
zero two.
Right?
Inside that you'll find kube manifest,
right?
Right, we have that.
Okay, so I'm going to say kubctl-f kube manifest.
So it need to create three things for us, okay?
So storage class,
persistent volume claim,
and it's equivalent the DB creations script
related ConfigMap.
So I'll say Qctl get SC,
which is nothing but the storage class, okay?
And I have got my EBS CSI AWS.com
which is the EBSS. created.
So now I'll say get PVC
which is nothing but persistent volume claim.
Now you can see, right?
It is waiting.
It is waiting for the first consumer.
You can see the status is waiting.
So it is not already allocated our volume
already binded.
Okay?
So if you want get PV, nothing.
So persistent volume still not yet created,
volume claim is waiting to create the volume until
and unless the part got created,
it is not going to,
it is not going to create it, okay?
It is not going to bind the volume
and then create the persistent volume.
So let's wait for it.
Okay, So now we have completed these things,
so let's if you want we can even delete it
or we can leave it as is.
Okay?
That's not a big deal.
So in our next lecture we are going to focus
on creating the Maya scale deployment
and then Maya scale cluster IP service.
And then we'll move on
with the creating those deployment service
all these manifests and then testing it.
Okay?
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.